for years we've been creating some of
the
jankiest cooling and pc modding projects
on the internet and it was my hope that
hiring alex who actually has some
engineering background
would result in a significant
improvement to the quality of the
aforementioned projects but every time i
ask him to do something he's like
well i could do that if only i had the
proper equipment why don't you just ask
for better tools instead of just making
me use crappy ones i don't think you
need that so is this the last thing on
your wish list because this is one of
the things you've been trying to get me
to get since you started
a metal lathe would really
top it off and then and a tig welder so
this is it alex
woo
see me yeah no more excuses we have
officially procured
everything you've asked for
so today's video is all about setting up
the brand new linus tech tips workshop
complete with cnc mill cnc router laser
cutter lathe i think we have a sand
blaster
the mill's not cnc but whatever
yeah
and this video is brought to you by
pulseway with pulseway you can remotely
monitor and manage your windows mac or
linux machines from one app create your
free account today at the link in the
video description
[Music]
now this video can't start without a
massive shout out to oh canada supply
these guys have absolutely freaking
everything and they have hooked us up
with a fair bit of the gear that we're
going to be using to kit out pretty much
a thousand square feet of this warehouse
unit so this is going to be
the workshop
which is crazy because i think it makes
you officially our most expensive
employee
not compared to brandon ooh
second most expensive employees so here
i was trying to figure out where to
start and
they did all the work for us yeah oh i
see why they want us to open this first
it's the storage cabinet that everything
goes in
that way we're not just opening things
up and just spreading them out on the
floor they've clearly watched our videos
so we can keep everything kind of
organized
the thing about systems is that they
tend to take up a lot of space
that's a mess i don't understand that
yeah
this is like christmas except my parents
never loved me this much i don't know
about yours
oh
on the envelope first to the linus media
group team supplying your team with the
equipment you need for your workshop 2.0
video series has been a pleasure from
our 100 canadian-owned company to our
new friends at lmg we want to recognize
the impression you made in the online
world that's nice oh and a packing slip
oh so that's everything you ordered yeah
spoilers holy
crap coveralls in a variety of sizes
blade feeler gauge
welding gloves and everything from xl
down to my size
oh nice oh that's cute
it's on like uh old pallet wood or
something you know there's a shocking
amount of our viewers that don't know
that we're canadian so i guess we're
setting the record straight about that
once and for all yeah now they know this
is incredible once we get all this set
up we're gonna have like
a kitted out shop oh yeah
we have like almost everything that we
need besides all the other stuff we need
to buy what other stuff i don't know
like end mills
lathe cutter chums that sort of stuff
so although we got a lot of tools
the storage for those tools actually was
the most expensive bit no way really
yeah
oh boy
we're good
yep down it goes
we remove this
we tip it back up
fingers oh there we go
and
or does it say on there how heavy those
things are
125 kilos
hey we did not bad yeah that's like wow
that's like 270 pounds
nice yeah we can fit a lot of stuff in
those and it's nice because like in the
old workshop we had those like cutouts
on that board if people at least tried a
little bit okay goggles okay goggles
uh construction adhesive let's not hate
on the old workshop too much let's just
say this one's better not that the old
one was bad what even is this
that is a huge air compressor
why do we need such a big air compressor
um that's the one that they recommended
for the idea is that it's just going to
sit in a closet and we're going to have
air lines around the whole thing
there'll be compressed air at all the
different machines and stuff neat uh
this we probably shouldn't open yet no
that can just stay cool
miller lathe
mill damn don't include that so
why don't you talk us through what this
is i don't think this one's from canada
supply
no this is a classic bridgeport mill
it's a two horsepower one
and it comes with a dro so what's a dro
exactly um digital readout so that'll
allow you to have down to i think it's
a tenth of a thousandth of an inch
accuracy does it say how old it is on
there nope just blue but you figure it's
from
60s 70s sometime in there oh my gosh
so how much did we pay for this guy this
was about five grand canadian
and it's from the 60s or 70s yep
[Music]
i guess the good news about that is that
um
it's probably gonna continue to hold its
value reasonably well yeah these things
don't depreciate at this point so the
thing that a mill gives us
is the precision
and power to work with metal in a way
that's not really possible with our cnc
router well it's basically just like a
huge drill press so you put whatever
your cutter is in right here yeah and
then you attach
whatever your work is to a vise that
comes right here
yeah you put a water block and then
you're able to accurately move back and
forth like this probably works a bit
better without the plastic on there
so if you were to build a make a water
block out of this thing are you like are
you standing here for two hours
yup
and i pay for that it was you probably
wouldn't be standing here for two hours
because it can remove a lot of material
at a time
oh like that's an advantage over the
router yeah it can just like get right
in there you can come in with like
a big cutter like that and just go right
across the whole top at once so this
right here when i talked to oh canada
tool supply i actually put in the
document as something that we don't
really need but would be super sweet and
this is the sandblaster yes this is the
sandblaster holy crap it weighs
264 pounds
does that mean does it come pre-loaded
with sand or is that just the weight of
the actual machine no i'm pretty sure
that the like
57 kilos on top here is the sand i'm not
an idiot i know it doesn't doesn't quit
well miller lathe
milk damn don't include that does it
come pre-filled with sand it's like
buying a water bottle does it come with
water oh oh rip off rip off
by the way buy a water bottle
lttstore.com no water included what the
heck is this why is it so heavy yeah
this says 24 kilos this is 50 pounds but
it's not much bigger than a poster is it
just a big piece of steel
it's a giant steel plate you know what
it probably is it's probably a
backsplash wow
that is freaking heavy
[Music]
i think i know what those are for now
i think it's literally a steel table
what to like put it on or to weld on
oh
which is why it's
beside this guy right here
i'm unsure if the arc still okay yep the
arc station this is just a station for
welding what are you gonna weld
uh things i don't know
whatever we want
yeah we're gonna weld things in search
really you have no idea
you requested a welder without having
anything planned for it i have lots of
things that we could weld
and slowly we'll work up whoa
so fun fact you guys alex before he
worked here one of the things that made
his resume stand out is that he was
heavily involved
in
uh competitive like dune buggy building
there's actually some great footage of
him surviving some pretty spectacular
crashes so i figured either he's really
good
at building safe dirt buggies or his
head is really solid either way i want
him at linus media group i thought that
it was a bit
ambitious
yeah okay so are we just gonna like
leave this as it is for now yeah that
seems like a lot of my problem i have
straight up never
unboxed a
crate like this before yeah maybe we can
open that once we have more things over
here sure
like there must be something that will
open it you would think that
no no no no that's going to bend that
don't do that no i wasn't going to do
that i was just going to move on oh
[Music]
i feel like you're doing it wrong
well you do that can i just unblock this
right here you sure can
i think that this is supposed to go on
top of the other ones what i want to
know is who are they trying to keep out
of this thing
like i feel like i'm
unpacking a
dangerous caged animal or something
there it is boys
this is a lot bigger than it looked in
the pictures
yeah
do we have space for this
are you sure
yeah over there
well okay then i think i remember what
happened here i wanted to get the like
smaller one but they didn't have it in
stock at the time
so there's like
we have this bigger one
and like really if i was buying them i
think this one wasn't a whole lot more
expensive anyway
okay
yep
this is like the shelfinator 5000.
so this is more storage yeah
so you know how right now all of our
like glues and epoxies
and like
does this not seem a little overkill for
storing glue oh wow
so you just like
oh wow that can hold all the things yeah
like all of the things so this guy right
here i believe is from 1974.
and it's a cold chester i think that
one's three horsepower lathe
so this one is a bit larger than what we
would have needed but the reason that i
decided on it is that it has a lot more
safety features than some of the other
ones
i don't know exactly what a lathe does i
don't think the last time i used a lathe
i was in wood shop so very similar you
just put your metal in here or whatever
you want and then instead of a chisel
you'll have like a lathe cutting piece
that comes in right here
and then you just
move these yeah maybe this one you move
that and then this is able to move all
around in the different directions and
then you just kind of bring it into your
piece of metal and give a little caddy
cut things i never knew i needed
i like this one okay what next i don't
know what the heck is this thing
oh it's another storage cabinet okay why
don't we do that later yeah i've got
something more interesting back here
though i think
this appears to be a 14-inch wood band
saw so what do we need this for we never
do woodworking uh that one will also do
aluminum
oh
which also we do have storage for
flammable goods now which is pretty
sweet oh that's cool so right now we
just have like caution explodey stuff
so having an actual like
legit cabinet for flammable goods is
going to be really great
you know what i don't think we have to
open this yeah people know what band
saws look like
it's like this one right here except
bigger and better okay
so then i guess there's only really this
more this palette here
yeah but i feel like that a lot of the
fun stuff is on this palette right here
says threaded rod
why do we have so much of it
it's a end mill holder okay so this is
all the cutting bits for the mill then
yep they just kind of go in here and
then
yeah you can just pop them out and
cool
yeah
oh nice our uniforms
for these projects are here
shop coats
no more we're getting dirty
super rugged gloves coveralls i guess
it's just a bunch of coveralls
nice
in all sizes
including mine right yep
small
actually i wear a medium coat just small
gloves can i see the small gloves this
is probably like small for like rugged
manly men
yeah did we get any extra smalls then we
didn't it's well darn
what is this it's blue i like blue
oh this might be like one of those water
bottles that actually comes with water
in it look can you stop hating on our
merch
oh fun
yeah cool great just uh so it's just a
screwdriver bit organizer with a nice
handy legend at the top so we can buy
more of them or we can lose some or
whatever no matter what you know where
they go back oh eyewash station
safety is important kids screwdriver set
uh what's in here
okay yeah nice nice screwdriver set i
give it 20 minutes before one of these
is lost like we can't we can't
lose our stuff this time
what is here i'm there's one yes
oh we finally have a proper tap and die
set without missing pieces and does it
have a handle for the tap
oh it does oh it has everything so many
people have been complaining i've been
complaining
sorry steve
and they've been complaining while we've
had this just in our workshop how long
has this been sitting here like two or
three months
and here we have 20 kilograms of sand
oh first aid kit we could need it at any
moment around here biohazard disposal
vinyl gloves cool
i have got some good stuff here
there we go cordless high torque impact
wrench
cordless drill slash driver corded
performance what is this it's like an
angle grinder but smaller
oh so a dremel it's like a dremel but
with balls
plastic pipe shear yeah i wonder if that
will just be like
we want to do hard light tubing it's
like
cordless angle grinder giant charging
station
i knew you'd think of everything more
batteries more batteries more batteries
you be careful with these
new soldering iron 18 gauge metal sheer
i'm going to use this for well if you
get a sheet of metal and you want like a
smaller piece and you're just like
cool and finally a little cute compact
vacuum there's still a lot of stuff that
we haven't seen yet weld craft kit oh
that's just welding accessories so we
have a bunch of different torch heads
for different
sizes of wire that you might use like in
here
test indica test of what
test of like how far away you are from
something
so this is a super duper precise
instrument okay so be careful with it so
what you can do
is you mount it to either like the mill
or the lathe and then you can measure
that's to a thousandth of an inch one of
the problems with our router right now
is that it isn't quite flat
to the table right and with that right
there we'll be able to tram it in to
within a thousandth of an inch whereas
right now we can just like eyeball it
danger
do not operate tags this is really
important because there's only a couple
of people in this building that should
be in this building
this better be like a congratulations
for making it this far
nope it's a lot of sandpaper oh screw
extractor yay these are kind of like
your last hope if you get one of these
out you're probably done already so i
guess this our last one this is it this
is all awesome so this looks like your
air hose nonsense what no this is for
welding
oh this is the actual welder oh so this
is like a pretty ball and welder ideally
we would have got like a mig welder or
something but we have to do a lot of
aluminum stuff like that's what pcs are
so i figured that it was worth getting
something that can actually do aluminum
and with a take welder you hold
the filler rod with your hand
and with the mig welder it does it
automatically
i personally like take a lot more oh but
it takes a bit more finesse got it
speaking of finesse the way i transition
into these sponsor spots this plate
makes magnet mounted metal prints that
are durable and don't require any power
tools in order to hang them they've got
over a quarter million different
artworks spanning a bunch of different
styles and influences and with their
easy magnetic mounting there's no holes
in the wall and you can easily replace
them they plant 10 trees for every
display purchased and you can use code
ltt to save 15 through the link in the
video description
so thanks for watching guys if you
disliked this video you must not enjoy
seeing alex have fun so you can hit that
button if you want but if you liked it
hit like get subscribed or maybe
consider checking out where to buy the
stuff we featured at the
ocanadasupply.ca link in the video
description also down there is our merch
store which has cool shirts like this
one and that one and cool hats like that
one and our community forum which you
guys should totally join it's gonna be a
lot of work to set up
yeah um
see ya yeah
okay have fun finding people i guess
this way